Well come back and this video we are going to change the value of the text element programmatically.
So let's go out and create a empty object and that's called that one game manager a game manager is
an object that you can use for example to use to collect your score and to take care of states and those
kind of things.
And if you want to add the functionality that we can change the number here let's go ahead and create
a new script and I'm going to call that text behavior.
So let's open it up it's open that's crept up and whenever you want to work with text within code what
you need to do or with text elements what you need to do is you need to add using unity engine thought
you die.
So this name space is important.
Otherwise you can't create a text object.
So you can see there is a class called Text basketball graphic.
I lay out element.
So it's an default graphic to draw font data to screen and that's what we want.
So I'm going to create a public text and I'm going to call it simply my text.
Now within the Start method I could go ahead and initialize that.
So I could search for a text or I can simply do it like that so that I can drag it in to my component.
You will see what that means in a second.
Now if somebody presses on a button if input thought get key down is key code that space.
So whenever we press space what I want to happen is I want to change my text and I want to change it
to a number.
So let's create a number and text number and let's set that to zero.
And every time that I hit space I want the text number to be increased by 1 so I increase increment
the number of text number by one every time that somebody presses on the space key and at the same time
I want to change the text of my text so my text that text is equal to text number to that text number
got to string.
So what that will do is it will change that the text itself to the value that our text number has.
And of course we need to cast it into a string because text expects a string see string text so the
string value this text will the text will display.
So my text which is our text you element will now display whatever number we have there.
So let's have a look what that means.
If we go back to unity our text behavior that our game manager has now will get my text which is our
text from the canvas that I have here.
So I have to drag it in there.
Now we have a text in here and what we can do is run the Cote and see what happens if I press space.
So I'm pressing SPACE.
And as you can see the number goes up every time I press space and it is displayed here.
You could even go ahead and say if how ever the input that was pressed is not so.
Else if
so if the input is not the space but let's say you Aspel key was pressed.
So get the key down key code thought as that's the case then change my text.
Thought text 2 as was pressed
my will to see what happens.
Let's go back to our game.
Let's start at
now concedes the zero.
I press space and I press as you can see as was pressed.
Now of course it's not perfectly positioned so our text you I lament was not perfectly positioned to
maintain this amount of information so this amount of characters we could however of course change that.
So we could change the width of it or we could move it over and we could even change to with two let's
say 300 and with a little bit further even.
So now let's see what happens now.
But wait let's save our scene.
That's always good.
So let's call that one main control.
And now let's run it.
Now we press enter enter enter and a press press as and you see as I was pressed.
All right so now you know how you can manipulate your text elements how you can use them in general
because what we will do is of course we will use them in the pong game and in general in every game
book because we will need a UI and that's for example how you can use text.